---
title: "Random thoughts for 2014 Oct 23"
tags: [daybook, thoughts]
---

* [I've been running.][running]

  * I'm not a champ by any means, yet, but it's looking like it's stuck as a
    habit. 
    
    * I start to feel antsy when I haven't managed to get around to it.

  * Winter in Michigan will be interesting. Last year, the sidewalks were
    break-neck dangerous for walking let alone jogging.

* As a remote worker, I think this is a splendid insight:

  > If you focus purely on the job, and not the industry, you realise airlines
  > selling business class seats are competing with Skype for customers, as they
  > address the same job: the need to have clear communication with colleagues.

  Source: [The End of Apps as We Know Them][endofapps]

* I'm pleased with [this project layout][layout] for a node.js-based web client /
  server app.

  * Thanks to the Heroku app button, this thing is cake to get running
    somewhere *out there*.

  * Browserify lets me share a lot of code between client & server, using the
    same conventions.

    * Though, I have to be careful not to pile too much into
      the client-side JS bundle. It's really easy to inflate that.

  * I've been really into Gulp recently, but so far I don't need it here.

    * I'm gratuitously wasting memory and cycles by processing resources on
      the fly through the app server rather than generating as static assets

    * Maybe I'll change my mind on that after I've tinkered for awhile.

* [Toot = Tiny outburst of text][toot]

  * A white-label term for "tweet" that's not as dry as
    "microblog post" or "status update"

  * It makes me giggle, which is important when you're coding for the
    hell of it.

  * It would tickle me if toot caught on, didn't get trademarked, and
    everyone had a giggle too.

  * "tiny" means not necessarily 140 characters, but definitely not an essay.
  
    * A paragraph or less? Should be a single notion, easily scanned in one
      visual gulp.

  * "outburst" means it's outloud to a bunch of people

    * Could be a public broadcast, could be an aside to a small group

  * "text" does not mean these should only be plain words and sentences.

    * There's [a definition][def] of text that goes like "something (as a
      story or movie) considered as an object to be examined, explicated, or
      deconstructed"

    * And texts we send each other these days are riddled with pictures and
      videos and emoji and random expression. So, why not toots?

[running]: http://www.strava.com/athletes/6013128
[def]: http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/text
[endofapps]: http://blog.intercom.io/the-end-of-apps-as-we-know-them/
[toot]: https://github.com/lmorchard/toothub/tree/ea774e76c7688e33ca5ec8144d13ae1a4c1546da#what
[layout]: https://github.com/lmorchard/toothub/tree/ea774e76c7688e33ca5ec8144d13ae1a4c1546da

## What were all those bullets for?

Back when I used Dave Winer's OPML Editor, I used to have a daily habit of
opening a new outline and popping over to it throughout the day to collect
random thoughts. I might build on one thing or another, and sometimes a full
blog post would sprout out of one of them. Otherwise, I might just hit publish
and put the whole outline as-is on the web.

I also tried using Eastgate Tinderbox for awhile like this. That was
interesting for capturing constellations of thoughts, but I found it harder to
put that into a web-ready form without reworking things into proper posts. An
outline just seems to work as a bullet list.

These days, this sort of microblogging happens on Twitter. But, that's like
dropping seeds into a running stream. In they go, and then they're gone. The
impulse to get something out of my head is satisfied, but I never really come
back to look at what came out or cultivate more.



<!-- vim: set wrap wm=5 syntax=mkd textwidth=78: -->
