---
title: You are free to make the web (not) suck
tags: [webdev, advertising, internet, privacy, tracking]
---

<nav role="navigation" class="table-of-contents"></nav>

TL;DR: The open web is beautiful. There's nothing else like it. It's up to you what you do with it. Many folks are doing terrible things with it and ruining it for the rest of us.

<!--more-->

## The beauty of the open web

Man, I love the web.

Just take a step back and look at it: You've got this thing called a browser. It acts as an Agent on your behalf. It reaches out to servers on the Internet and requests resources identified via Universal Resource Locators. Among these resources you'll find hypertext documents, stylesheets, images, and multimedia.

Your browser comes pre-installed with code that knows what to do with common types of content. But, browsers can't anticipate every invention. So, one of the supported resource content types is JavaScript source code. This is a kind of meta content type that offers the ability to augment existing content types and support completely new ones.

Chew on *that* awhile: Not satisfied to just be a networked document viewer with a frozen set of features, browsers ship with a full toolchain for compiling & running arbitrary third-party code on demand. Kind of scary, but it works way better than any reasonable person should expect.

And again, thanks to the Internet, these resources can each come literally from anywhere, hosted by any person or company or organization. Your browser collects all these disparate resources on demand. It assembles them into what is basically a fresh zero-installation temporary software application on your computer.

We call these insane things "web pages" - and the intended ephemerality of their negotiated hold on our computers is why we say we only "visit" them.

<!--
So, yeah, I'm crazy about the web. Crazy enough to work for Mozilla and turn down every other job offer over the years because the mission aligns so well with so many of my favorite things.
-->

## The curse of the open web

There is no other successful system like this on the planet. No other system for delivering content and software that is this open and free of gatekeepers deciding what we can publish. No other system where users are free to choose from many agents to operate on their behalf, independent of the publishers whose creations they visit.

There's no app store, no review process. You can make the most amazing or terrible things and - short of legal action or government intervention - no one can really stop you as long as you're paying the hosting bill.

In fact, even though I wrote that browsers are agents acting on their users' behalf - they're historically weak advocates. In general, they do what web pages tell them, with a few exceptions for safety and security.

So, today's open web offers the balance of control largely to publishers. Browser vendors are working flat out to keep up. Sure, folks like us at Mozilla apply nudges to influence the direction. That's our mission and why there's still a Firefox. But, for the most part, the major efforts across competing organizations are poured into getting browsers to fetch more, render better, compile & run faster.

But, as far as I can see, [Parkinson's law][] continues to apply. For every improvement to capacity, someone works out some new thing to consume it. The trajectory of today's web sometimes resembles the punishment of [Sisyphus][] - push that performance boulder up the hill this year just to see next year's industry standard practice tip it right back down again.  

[Parkinson's law]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parkinson's_law
[Sisyphus]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sisyphus

That's the curse of the open web: No one will stop you from building a web page that fires off hundreds of requests, chews up mobile data plans, and makes a CPU melt through the casing - all while ushering in dozens of global entities to observe every aspect of behavior that can be gleaned from keystroke, tap, and scroll.

## Blame is easily misdirected

Flash crashed? Blame Firefox.

Slow web page? Blame Firefox.

If Mozilla's lucky, maybe you take it up a level and blame your laptop or phone instead of Firefox. Believe it or not, many folks don't know what a browser is. They lack the motivation to make space in their heads for that knowledge. (Having most of *my* head taken up by this stuff, I certainly can't blame them.)

So, the user agent or the device gets the blame. It's right there in front of you. All the hustle it's doing behind the scenes is obscured by layers of technology and jargon. It's nearly impossible for any sane person to wrap their head around all the responsible parties involved in any given web page.

The blame rarely falls on web publishers and the organizations with whom they've made deals. Sure, us web nerds complain all the time, but that's just noise. Busy normal people just want that thing to stop spinning so they can eat a burrito and read about who Donald Trump pissed off this time.

## There ain't no such thing as a free web

Users have learned that visiting today's open web is free of charge. But, truly, [there ain't no such thing as a free lunch][tanstaafl]. Publishers have to fund themselves somehow. Lucky for them, it turns out that there are folks willing to pay for the ability to learn more about users and present users with ads.

[tanstaafl]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/There_ain't_no_such_thing_as_a_free_lunch

So, of course, publishers don't make these deals with advertisers and trackers just for fun. They do it to survive.

But, when you visit a publisher's web page, every deal they've made adds one more chunk of software and content that your browser's going to faithfully grab and temporarily install on your computer. That's one more set of things to fetch, render, compile, and run on your hardware over your data plan.

Sometimes these inclusions turn into visible, animated ads out to grab your attention. More often they self-assemble into little invisible spies that phone home. You know, so that ads and site content can hopefully be made more compelling based on intelligence gathered about you and people like you.

And thanks to some of those capabilities browser vendors have added to keep up with the web, those temporary pieces of software can store semi-permanent bits of data on your machine to pick up where they left off later - often even following you between totally different web sites.

It all adds up to something terrible, one tracking pixel or script snippet at a time. But, remember what I've written so far about browsers, weak user agents, and how blame falls. There's barely any practical cost to adding these things to a web page. Users grumble at their devices & browsers & data plans, and the publishers get a few more fractional cents per visit. No one ever sees the ad networks or the trackers. The consequences don't tend to flow up stream to the source.

<!--
I mean, sure, there was a time when webdevs railed against adding one more straw to the camel's back for fear the whole thing would come crashing down. We did it because we got paid to do it, one tracking pixel at a time.

And one day, folks in charge realized they were getting away with it. The mouthy nerds were wrong. So, shut up and add more pixels & script snippets to the global template. Bizdev needs more analytics and that new partner is paying for the desk we just filled next to you.
-->

## Apps rule, browsers drool

This stuff has been going on for awhile. But, it seems like it's been coming to a head lately with the announcement of things like [Facebook's Instant Articles][] and [Apple's News app][]. These apps offer great reading experiences that users will love.

[Facebook's Instant Articles]: http://instantarticles.fb.com/
[Apple's News app]: https://www.apple.com/news/

That's usually posed in contrast to the terrible experience on today's mobile web. And unfortunately, the conclusion I see repeated is that the web itself has failed. Browsers are irredeemably broken. Apps are the only way forward.

Like I wrote earlier, it's easiest to blame the browsers.

Here's the thing, though: News apps are user agents, too. They just happen to be more constrained. Users are not allowed to access as many terrible things. Publishers negotiate with gatekeepers rather than piling on cruft from their own deals. Gatekeepers can curate the experience to contain the suck, all while tapping the revenue flow.

Thus, the news app gatekeepers perform the service of saving publishers from the freedom of managing their own terrible web pages.

Of course, this new situation sucks when users also want to be publishers, and they don't want to negotiate with gatekeepers. Like you can do with the open web. Maybe we should keep that old thing around a bit longer?

## Time for stronger user agents?

Firefox supports add-ons, Chrome supports extensions, and [Adblock Plus][] has been around for years. Now we have Apple doing something similar with support for [Content Blocking Safari Extensions][] on iOS.

[Adblock Plus]: https://adblockplus.org/

Notice, though, that we're all keeping this stuff at arm's length. It's still someone else's problem to write the extension that makes the decisions on what to block. And, it's up to users to discover & install it. And, if enough heat comes our way, we have plausible deniability. Apple could even noisily reject it from the App Store.

[Content Blocking Safari Extensions]: http://www.niemanlab.org/2015/06/a-blow-for-mobile-advertising-the-next-version-of-safari-will-let-users-block-ads-on-iphones-and-ipads/

But, if the alternative is to watch the open web head off into the sunset while apps from Facebook and Apple take it all - what have we got to lose?

Let's be honest: Everyone I know uses [Adblock Plus][]. It's just all those uninitiated folks who haven't gotten a lecture from their local nerd who still browses the web with all the ads on.

What if the browser got a bit meaner by default on the behalf of users? Web nerds know a lot about what makes the web suck. Web nerds make browsers. What if web nerds started sticking up for our users better? I mean, this is dangerous talk. This is turning browser vendors into gatekeepers - something we've tried really hard to avoid.

I won't speak for other vendors. I would posit, though, that Mozilla wouldn't simply negotiate with publishers for the best cash deal. We'd push bizarre things without obvious price tags like [privacy and user sovereignty][sovereignty]. I bet that would turn into a nasty public fight, with claims of censorship and suchlike from the advertising industry.

Oh, wait. Right. [That happened back when we made a baby step by blocking third party cookies][party-cookies]. Like Apple's Safari [had been doing already][safari-cookies]. So, that's a can of worms I don't think anyone's eager to pry open any further or faster than we already have.

But still, wouldn't it be nice if your user agent really fought for you, driven by opinions and preferences with which you agreed? Filter the cruft, refuse the tracking - demand a better deal by opting not to fetch, render, compile, or run anything unsavory. Curate the experience by [fighting for the user][fight-for-user].

[fight-for-user]: https://www.google.com/search?q=I+fight+for+the+user&tbm=isch
[safari-cookies]: http://www.theverge.com/2013/2/23/4023078/firefox-to-start-blocking-cookies-from-third-party-advertisers
[party-cookies]: http://www.iab.net/mozilla_rothenberg
[sovereignty]: https://blog.lizardwrangler.com/2012/01/13/user-sovereignty-for-our-data/

## Time for better funding models

So I guess it's easier to start fresh with a new kind of user agent that's on the side of the money from day 1.

Snarking aside, this is not entirely unreasonable. Again, [there ain't no such thing as a free lunch][tanstaafl]. In fact, folks like [Ted Nelson][micro-liberation] and [Jaron Lanier][free-info] have been saying for years (and decades) that the free-of-charge web is failing itself and all of us. (For what it's worth, [I made fun of Ted Nelson & Xanadu][xanadu-fun] once upon a time. But, since then I've read more about his work and realize how off base I was.)

[xanadu-fun]: http://decafbad.com/blog/2002/11/11/ooocba/
[micro-liberation]: http://transcopyright.org/hcoinRemarks-D28.html
[free-info]: http://www.niemanlab.org/2013/05/jaron-lanier-wants-to-build-a-new-middle-class-on-micropayments/

However, I'm afraid today's web and its users are too addicted to the free-of-charge model to move very quickly toward a micropayment system. And there's kind of a standoff: For every site that braves a hand held out for pay, another will step in and take the free money.

But, you know, I listen to Tom Merritt's [Daily Tech News Show][dtns] - and [people like me pay him via Patreon][dtns-patreon]. So, that works for some folks. Maybe it should grow.

Here's another idea: Almost a year ago, [I heard the notion of "Subscribe 2 Web" at Mozilla][s2w]. The gist is that you're worth about $6.20 per month to publishers via advertising revenues. What if you paid that much into an account yourself every month? You could use a mechanism built into your browser to distribute that money directly to publishers whose sites you visit. Yeah, it's micropayments, but I find it interesting that these folks actually came up with a specific dollar amount.



[s2w]: https://air.mozilla.org/subscribe2web/
[dtns]: http://www.dailytechnewsshow.com/
[dtns-patreon]: http://www.dailytechnewsshow.com/subscribe/

## Time for

## Your old laptop is not your new smartphone

## Google and Mozilla

## Everyone is not doing it
