8<--- { "title": "Miscellanea for 2025-05-27", "time": "23:59:00-07:00", "type": "miscellanea", "slug": "miscellanea", "tags": [ "miscellanea" ] }

- Hello world!

8<--- { "draft": true, "title": "Only the Metrics Care", "slug": "only-metrics-care", "tags": [ "slop", "ai", "webdev", "career" ], "time": "15:10:48-07:00" }

Dan Sinker, [The Who Cares Era](https://dansinker.com/posts/2025-05-23-who-cares/):

> The writer didn't care. The supplement's editors didn't care. The biz people on both sides of the sale of the supplement didn't care. The production people didn't care. And, the fact that it took _two days_ for anyone to discover this epic fuckup in print means that, ultimately, the reader didn't care either.
>
> It's so emblematic of the moment we're in, the Who Cares Era, where completely disposable things are shoddily produced for people to mostly ignore.

This hits me hard right now. It’s part of a broader sadness I’ve been feeling—especially around the shrinking prospects for paid work that actually feels career-meaningful.

Dan calls it “disheartening,” and I feel that. He also writes, “It’s easy to blame this all on AI, but it’s not just that.” Exactly. This didn’t start with LLMs. They just sped things up—and ensured even fewer people get paid to produce an ever-growing volume of slop.

What’s worse: much of this output isn’t even for people anymore.

The user isn’t the customer. And they’re not the product either. The real product is behavioral optimization—metrics on a dashboard. The paying customer is somewhere else entirely, and the "content" is just a means to nudge behavior and juice KPIs.

That’s why we see this flood of AI-generated blog posts, podcasts, and articles that barely say anything and just conjure a vibe. Why publish something devoid of editorial oversight or substance? Because it meets a quota, hits a keyword target, or triggers an engagement metric.

The point isn’t to communicate. It’s to simulate relevance in order to optimize growth. It's all goal-tracking, A/B tests, fake doors, and dark patterns.

It’s not publishing. It’s performance art for algorithms. [Interpretive dance for the bots](https://blog.lmorchard.com/2024/03/11/dance-for-the-bots/). It's [sympathetic magic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cargo_cult#Postwar_developments)—building the runways and replicas, hoping the air traffic increases.

And that’s what makes me so sad. It reveals such a [grim meathook future](https://www.jwz.org/blog/2005/09/the-grim-meathook-future/)  ahead, a solipsistic view of humanity: most people reduced to NPCs in someone else's growth funnel. Not peers. Not audiences. Just marks—behavioral units to be nudged for another uptick.

Anyway, I don’t have a better conclusion than Dan’s: "In the Who Cares Era, the most radical thing you can do is care." He’s right. And honestly, I’m still trying to figure out what that looks like, day to day—besides being caremad and grumpy all the time, that is.

8<--- { "draft": false, "title": "Quoting Matthew Haughey about YouTube Ad Revenue", "slug": "youtube-ad-revenues", "tags": [ "youtube", "business", "money", "ads", "advertising" ], "time": "11:10:53-07:00" }

Matthew Haughey, "[YouTube revenue and recent good ones](https://a.wholelottanothing.org/youtube-revenue-and-recent-good-ones/)":

> For high-end channels that put out weekly videos, they often have a team of 4-5 people behind the scenes, shooting video and editing it all and getting everyone paid but it doesn't make sense based solely on YouTube/Google's ad income. Instead, they take a break into the middle of their video to talk about SquareSpace or BetterHealth, and the creators I follow admit they get $5k-$30k for those ads, while the same video might only make a few hundred bucks from YouTube. When I hear this, I'm both shocked at how high the ad rates are for an embedded ad read but also how little YouTube/Google pays their creators.

I was [just wondering the other day](https://blog.lmorchard.com/2025/05/16/ads-ruining-youtube/) whether YouTube has optimized its ads to make folks think favorably of the advertiser or annoy users into ponying up for a Premium subscription? Really seems like the latter annoyance way more than the former.

Sounds like the cruddy ad interjections don't even make much money for the folks who make the videos that get interrupted—and I've heard from several of those folks that they make more money from Premium viewers anyway.

8<--- { "draft": false, "title": "Involuntary Stone Soup AI", "slug": "involuntary-stone-soup-ai", "tags": [ "ai", "llm" ], "time": "11:56:35-07:00" }

Alison Gopnik, "[Stone Soup AI](https://simons.berkeley.edu/news/stone-soup-aihttps://simons.berkeley.edu/news/stone-soup-ai)":

> Here is a modern version of the tale. Some tech execs came to the village of computer users and said, “We have a magic algorithm that will make artificial general intelligence from just gradient descent, next-token prediction, and transformers.” “Really,” said the users, “that does sound magical.” “Of course, it will be even better and more intelligent if we add more data — especially text and images,” said the execs. “That sounds good,” said the users. “We have some extra texts and images we created stashed away on the internet — we could put those in.”

I kind of like this reframing of the story, except... While the three hungry travelers did provide the cauldron and the stones and the firewood—they just went ahead and helped themselves to the onions and carrots and chickens from the villagers' stores.

Then they sell the soup to the villagers and [cry that there'd be no soup to sell if they weren't allowed](https://www.theverge.com/news/674366/nick-clegg-uk-ai-artists-policy-letter) to dig around in folks' pantries without asking.
