8<--- { "title": "Miscellanea for 2025-05-14", "time": "23:59:00-07:00", "type": "miscellanea", "slug": "miscellanea", "tags": [ "miscellanea" ] }

- Hello world!
- I bought a [BOOX Tab Ultra C](https://shop.boox.com/collections/all/products/tabultrac) almost 2 years ago. I use it almost daily for writing notes and journal entries. It's also been pretty great for reading comics in color. Two things I really don't like about it:
	- It's got a camera bump on the back, so it doesn't sit flat on a table without a case on.
	- The case that came with it is disintegrating into dust.
- So, I'm considering trying to design my own replacement case - or at least a layer to stick on the back to even out the camera bump. Hoping to use #3dprinting and embed magnets that line up with the device's own internal case mounting magnets.
- But, like, why put a camera bump on a tablet?
- Why design a camera bump into anything, really? Just make the device thicker and fill the rest of the space with battery.
- I need to stop before I go on a cranky rant about my intense disgust for camera bumps and notches and other failures of design from Apple that the rest of the industry have just copied.
- I've been meaning to write something up about the Rube Goldberg machine that runs this blog now. Writing this bullet point to irritate myself to do it soon, maybe.
- Just noticed that [jpmonette/feed](https://github.com/jpmonette/feed) - a node.js module for generating RSS, Atom, and JSON feeds - got [a new release](https://github.com/jpmonette/feed/releases/tag/5.0.1) a couple days ago after about 4 years of dormancy. Looks like they may have possibly fixed a few of the issues I had with it, when last I tried using it. 🤔

8<--- { "title": "Quoting Katie Parrott", "tags": ["ai", "llm", "ml", "vibecoding", "ux" ], "time": "13:18:00-07:00" }

Katie Parrott, "[It’s Me, Hi. I’m the Vibe Coder.](https://every.to/working-overtime/it-s-me-hi-i-m-the-vibe-coder)":

> And then there are people like me, who aren’t chasing entry into the engineer club or a seven-figure seed round. We're writers, designers, business owners, and domain experts motivated by specific problems we deeply understand, [empowered by AI tools](https://every.to/chain-of-thought/you-re-a-developer-now) that finally [speak our language](https://every.to/podcast/how-to-win-with-prompt-engineering).
> 
> Vibe coding hints at a future where software emerges from the inside out—from the people closest to the problems. As AI lowers the technical barrier, we may see more tools built by marketers, editors, researchers—anyone with deep context and a persistent itch to fix things.

This kind of thing is very exciting to me. While [I think](https://blog.lmorchard.com/2025/05/13/thinking-about-llms/) vibe coding is currently flawed & fraught for folks who don't entirely understand the code, I agree with Simon Willison that "[everyone deserves the ability to automate tedious tasks in ther lives with computers](https://simonwillison.net/2025/Mar/19/vibe-coding/#let-s-not-lose-track-of-what-makes-vibe-coding-special)".

There's a lot of hype and cynicism in tension out there. But, I've personally cycled through a bunch of AI tools in the past few years. I've seen their actual utility and glimmers of where they can go next.

Trying to stay sober here, but I'd love to see more tools meet users where they are and lower the technical bar overall. I think it's both possible and worth it to work toward improving the capability & reliability of these tools for folks outside of the programming "priesthood".
