8<--- { "title": "Miscellanea for 2025-05-11", "time": "23:59:00-07:00", "type": "miscellanea", "slug": "miscellanea", "tags": [ "miscellanea", "metablogging", "3dprinting", "meshtastic" ] }

- Hello world!
- A thing I have realized: filling all the vents of my Crocs with #3dprinting nonsense makes them a bit too warm to wear. 🥵
- Man, this image gallery component I lashed together just isn't behaving right. Image sizes are all over the place. I've seen this particular [lightGallery](https://www.lightgalleryjs.com/) widget work well on other sites, so I'm pretty sure it's something I'm doing that's disagreeable. Not sure how to fix it, tempted to switch to something else entirely - on the hypothesis that picking it up and shaking it like an Etch-a-Sketch may result in a better outcome.
- I don't often get feedback & comments via the Disqus comments widget I've embedded at the end of every post. That could be because a) folks aren't reading my blog or b) Disqus is too annoying to use these days. Probably both. I can work on the former by posting better stuff more often and sharing it around. As for the latter, I dunno. I don't want to open a spam honeypot, but I think I need to offer some simpler way to at least give a lil thumbs up as a response.
- I'm tempted to hook this stuff up to accounts on the Fediverse and Bluesky, try to get feedback from those channels. That could be worth hacking on for a bit.
- Just like my RSS feeds, though, I don't want to generate churn on those networks as I iterate on posts over the course of a day. I'm still thinking through how to balance editing flexibility with publishing stable things when word goes out to the world.
- Maybe these miscellanea posts get a 24-hour delay, because they're where I expect to futz around the most throughout a day. If you happen to read them, you're an early alpha reader I guess. Other posts that bud off from this daily scratchpad will likely be stable enough to send out immediately. 
- I guess that means I need to implement a defer-until feature in my Easy-Blog Oven 🤔 Maybe I can set the post date into the future and implement logic such that no post shows up in a feed or gets sent out to another service until after that time? Too clever?
- Hmm, I sent out "Word to your mother" on #meshtastic and someone replied. Maybe my messages *are* getting out?
- I'm starting to look into getting a doorbell camera that works with Home Assistant. I've seen a few recommendations for PoE widgets. Like this [REOLINK Video Doorbell PoE Camera](https://www.amazon.com/REOLINK-Doorbell-Security-Diagonal-Detection/dp/B0B7S1HMPC). That seems troublesome, unless I'm careful to stick it on its own VLAN / DMZ / whatever? Like I'm imagining someone could walk up at 4am, unhook it, plug in a laptop, and have fun on my network?
