8<--- { "time": "15:39:00-07:00", "type": "miscellanea", "slug": "miscellanea", "tags": [ "miscellanea", "metablogging", "writing" ] }

- I was starting to do "[weeknotes](https://blog.lmorchard.com/tag/weeknotes/)", this month. But, this week, I decided what I really wanted to do was just blog more. So, that got me started hacking on my blog software.
- I'm just going to deploy these changes to the blog. Some things might be broken, but I'll fix them as I go. I want to start actually using the thing.
- Thinking I'll start each day off with a miscellanea entry like this one and fill it full of little bullets.
- Maybe I'll start spawning little entries for bookmarks and quotes?
- One of the main things I'm thinking about with all this hackery and ASCII art is whether I'll be able to do *something* with all these files in 10 - 20 years' time. Granted, I'll be pushing 70, so maybe I won't care by then?
- But, the writing is the important part to me. I could write a whole new blog publisher from scratch and still read all the file formats. I've done that a couple times now and I can still handle stuff I wrote back in 2002. I think that's pretty cool.
- And here I am, attempting to blog from Obsidian on my phone? Is this the future?
- Next thing I need to work out is how to upload and display images via Obsidian on my phone. I think it's very doable, just a few more bits of Rube Goldberg crud to slot into place.

8<-- { "title": "Been doing a lot of writing outside my blog" }

Just realized today that I've written my 359th three-page week-daily handwritten journal entry on my [BOOX Tab Ultra C e-ink tablet](https://shop.boox.com/collections/all/products/tabultrac). I've also got paper volumes going back to 2017 with similar cadence. That's a lot of writing that no one but me will probably ever read. But, I do read it, occasionally, to sort myself out.

I've got a back-burnered side project to train a handwriting recognition model to actually convert my journal entries to text. I should get back to that. No off-the-shelf model has yet been able to successfully decipher my script.

I've also got a notion, once I've converted my journals, to try feeding them to an LLM - either as a fine-tuned model or searching via RAG. Then, I could maybe pull themes and trends out of my past writing and ask insufferable past self odd questions.

8<--- { "title": "Blogging elsewhere than into the void", "tags": [ "metablogging", "writing" ], "time": "13:51:00-07:00" }

The thing about blogging -  and why I want to do more of it and more often - is that [a blog post is a very long and complex search query to find fascinating people and make them route interesting stuff to your inbox](https://www.henrikkarlsson.xyz/p/search-query). It's why I used to blog so much, back before Twitter ate my brain. It actually brought me good fortune and favorable outcomes - friends, acquaintances, writing opportunities, job interviews.

When I'm posting just the occasional too-long-didn't-read entry, I'm not getting many hits returning from my search queries these days. 

That could just be because no one reads blogs at all, these days. [Except bots, maybe.](https://blog.lmorchard.com/2024/03/11/dance-for-the-bots/) Still, I don't think my few shots at posting have been interesting enough to justify the time to read.

I might get more hits if I can better balance frequency, length, and interestingness. And I think I can write more often if I write shorter things. As for the interestingness part - well, I think I just need more "[shots on goal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shot_on_goal_(ice_hockey))" to see what lands, rather than put forth a bunch of effort on one thing that lands to the sound of crickets.

This kind of sounds like I'm ruminating on some "engagement hacks" - kind of icky and I guess a product of my marketing-tech-poisoned brain. But also, I would actually like to connect with folks and not just shout into the void. I also really like writing and would like to find ways to work with my ADHD brain to make it happen more often in public.

8<--- { "time": "12:13:00-07:00", "title": "New blog, a lot like the old blog, but more of it", "tags": [ "metablogging", "writing", "twitter", "social" ] }

For years now, I've wanted to turn this blog into a place to write Big Serious Entries with fancy layouts and lots of words & images. I thought that would get me somewhere interesting. But, it turns out, that's a pretty heavy squelch filter on getting things out of my brain and onto the web. I just don't have the energy or follow-through to come up with Big Serious Entries all that often.

What I do have is a lot of little things that I could let tumble out of my ADHD brain. I used to do more of that here - but since the advent of Twitter, way back in 2006, I allowed most of that to be shunted over there. And when I finally abandoned Twitter in 2022, that brain spew more fully moved to [Mastodon](https://masto.hackers.town/@lmorchard).

Except, not entirely. Twitter and Mastodon are mostly good for tiny things. Not medium or long things. Or things that start small and grow with further thought throughout a day or a week. My blog could be good at that, though. So, I'm reworking the layout and how I can write entries to better accomodate that and dovetail into my habits.

I like the way [Dave Winer](http://scripting.com/) and [Simon Willison](https://simonwillison.net/) run their blogs. They riff throughout the day with notions of various length and format - sometimes as short as a toot and sometimes expanding out into full essays. They've both done this for years and years, and they've done well at it. So, I'm going to shamelessly steal some of their ideas and plonk them down here.

But, I'm also going to try a few of my own ideas. Like, Simon runs his blog [as a Django app](https://github.com/simonw/simonwillisonblog) and Dave [writes in OPML](http://scripting.com/?tab=about). Personally, I like my [Easy-Blog Oven](https://blog.lmorchard.com/2020/05/24/easy-blog-oven/index.html) and I like writing in Markdown.

One thing I don't like is tediously opening a new Markdown file every time I might have a wild idea, though. That's a thing that Dave's [OPML Editor](https://home.opml.org/) had going for it, [back when I blogged with it](https://web.archive.org/web/20061003021452/http://blogs.opml.org/decafbad/): You opened one outline for the whole day and just let ideas tumble into it over the hours. (Hmm, I want a screenshot here. I need to figure out how to paste one in.)

These days, my stand-in for the [OPML Editor](https://home.opml.org/) is [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/). In some ways, it's more cumbersome for outlining than OPML, but it does other things I like. So, I've come up with this goofy file format to open just one file per day and compose multiple entries in that file.

Basically, it's markdown, but if I [start a line with ASCII-art scissors (i.e. `8<`)](https://github.com/lmorchard/blog.lmorchard.com/blob/main/content/posts/2025/2025-05-09.md?plain=1#L15) then my Easy-Blog Oven [will chop that file up](https://github.com/lmorchard/blog.lmorchard.com/blob/main/lib/posts.js#L140-L156) into separate entries. I can also include a bit of JSON in there for post metadata.

No entry in the file is final, things may expand and contract and bud off into new entries over time. I'll probably let them alone after midnight, though. That might cause some churn in my RSS feeds, so I may eventually set them to a 24-hour delay. I don't know, I'm still thinking.

If I get really ambitious, I'll rig up some machinery to automatically publish as I write in an Obsidian tab. But, that's some hackery for the days ahead. For now, I just want to get these changes pushed out into the world before I wander off after something else shiny.
