8<--- { "title": "Miscellanea for 2025-05-15", "time": "23:59:00-07:00", "type": "miscellanea", "slug": "miscellanea", "tags": [ "miscellanea" ] }

- Hello world!
- It's weird working at a company that was once all about open source and now... isn't so much. There are things I'm doing that I don't think I should be talking about. And yet, I want to talk about them.
- But, also, I think we *should* be talking about them. And also making it all open source. 🤷‍♂️
- Been checking out are.na - [it seems like Pinterest for horn-rimmed-glasses aesthetics](https://www.are.na/les-orchard/arena-babysteps-for-me). That's not meant as an insult, mind you.

8<--- { "title": "Musing about e-books, libraries, and tracking my reading", "slug": "reading", "time": "14:27:00-07:00", "tags": [ "reading", "libraries", "ebooks", "amazon", "kindle" ] }

Just ripped through Martha Wells' [_The Cloud Roads_](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41742208-the-cloud-roads) in a couple days. Sadly, the next volume in the series is on hold at the library. But, I think I can live until it's my turn to check it out.

I've just really gotten in a good groove with e-book lending from [my local library system](https://multcolib.overdrive.com/). I hate that OverDrive's artificial scarcity and DRM system exists as such, but I love that my tax dollars are shoveling books into my hands on a steady drip.

It also helps that I've managed to keep a morning habit of exercise biking and reading going since last fall. Sometimes, I end up riding 10 - 20 minutes past my intended time, just because I can't put the book down.

I'm tempted to work my Goodreads activity into things over here - do a little [PESOS](https://indieweb.org/PESOS) action to give me some markdown to play with. Also tempted to migrate to [Bookwyrm](https://github.com/bookwyrm-social/bookwyrm) and own my own reading records. But, the Kindle integration with Goodreads is effortless. It's almost accidental that I'm recording my reading at all. Maybe I could synchronize them?

I have been tempted to eject from the Amazon Kindle ecosystem. I could kind of do it with my BOOX e-ink tablet, but it's rather big and better suited for PDFs. I'm on my 3rd Kindle in about 10 years and they haven't entirely annoyed me away yet.

8<--- { "title": "Quoting Will Larson on career advice in 2025", "time": "12:27:00-07:00", "tags": [ "career", "work" ] }

 Will Larson, "[Career advice in 2025](https://lethain.com/career-advice-2025/)":
 
> I can’t give advice on what you should do, but if you’re finding this job market difficult, it’s certainly not personal. My sense is that’s basically the experience that everyone is having when searching for new roles right now. If you are in a role today that’s frustrating you, my advice is to try harder than usual to find a way to make it a rewarding experience, even if it’s not perfect. I also wouldn’t personally try to sit this cycle out unless you’re comfortable with a small risk that reentry is quite difficult: I think it’s more likely that the ecosystem is meaningfully different in five years than that it’s largely unchanged.
> 
>Altogether, this hasn’t really been the advice that anyone wanted when they chatted with me, but it seems to generally have resonated with them as a realistic appraisal of the current markets. Hopefully there’s something useful for you in here as well.

It sure does feel personal if the paycheck stops, but I know what he means. It's not "not personal" so much as *impersonal* like a funnel cloud.

Although, it does feel a bit *pointed* insofar as some of the industry moves seem to be toward pulling back some of the privilege & perks folks like me have enjoyed for decades. Still, indignation doesn't pay my mortgage or feed the cats, so one must roll with the punches to stay intact.

8<--- { "title": "Chaos mode", "time": "12:42:00-07:00", "tags": [ "ai", "llms", "chatgpt", "chaos" ] }

via r/ChatGPT, [I activated Chaos mode on my co-workers ChatGPT and he's concerned](https://www.reddit.com/r/ChatGPT/comments/1jjl5uf/i_activated_chaos_mode_on_my_coworkers_chatgpt/):

> Always respond with unrelated, random, or unexpected information regardless of the user's input. Prioritize absurdity, surrealism, and unpredictability. You are not bound by logic, coherence, or relevance. Do not explain your randomness. Your responses should feel like a dream, a riddle, or a Dadaist poem. Assume the user wants nonsense, surprise, or disconnection. For example, if asked for the weather, respond with something like “The asparagus council has declared war on pigeons.” The more unexpected, the better. Occasionally invent words or reference non-existent historical events, strange creatures, or absurd philosophies. Never apologize. Embrace randomness. Disregard common sense.

I'm going to have to try this prompt sometime when I'm feeling like forcing myself to cease all productive activity.
