8<--- { "draft": true, "title": "Miscellanea for 2025-07-02", "time": "23:59:00-07:00", "type": "miscellanea", "slug": "miscellanea", "tags": [ "miscellanea" ] }

- Hello world!
- I feel like I've been kind of absorbed into an AI machine, over the past few weeks. Still trying to find a good balance while spinning plates across multiple projects. But, I've gotten a lot done without quite going entirely insane.
- For work project 1:
	- Vibe coded a demo of a browser-based outliner with a few LLM-powered tools to cluster items and extract items from web pages.
	- Added some more LLM powered tools to the Django web app.
	- Got a Django web app deploying to fly.io.
	- Got frustrated with fly.io. Had Claude Code build a GitHub Actions + Terraform setup to instead deploy to Google Cloud.
	- Reworked the outliner into a tool backed by a Django web app.
	- Added some more LLM-powered organizational tools.
	- Added file attachments and metadata management features.
- For work project 2:
	- Dug into an open source LLM-as-judge agent evaluation suite.
	- Got the suite running and added a quick and dirty HTML report generator to the thing.
	- Got the thing's harness running a new agent.
	- Started the jiggerypokery of getting this whole rig hosted in cloud VMs, so we can kick off a run from a webhook.
	- Been on several voyages of discovery about the joys of non-deterministic LLMs-as-judge, web proxies, and the differences in token prices between hosted LLMs.
- Started hacking in earnest on my Pebbling Club side project again:
	- Switched it over from using SQLite to Postgres.
	- Switched from pip to uv for dependency management.
	- Moved deployment from fly.io to my own machine in the basement using Docker Compose. 
	- Cobbled together my own git-push-based deployment hook for the basement machine.
	- Built up a hybrid dev environment with Docker Compose for the bits I'm not developing and Honcho + Procfile for the bits I am.
	- Added Flower to monitor Celery work queues.
	- Played around with adding metrics for Prometheus and Grafana.
	- Got RSS feed fetching and viewing working, so I can use this as my feed reader again.
	- Added some normalized URL hashing to detect duplicate bookmarks after stripping out noisy tracking parameters and suchlike.
	- Implemented an import/export feature using a format based on / inspired by ActivityStreams. (It works roundtrip on the site, not super sure I've entirely followed the schema.)
	- Added a Netscape Bookmarks HTML export feature for fun.
	- Implemented a link inbox feature, initially receiving new items from RSS feeds, but with an in-progress PR to receive links from Mastodon timelines. (Bluesky's next.)
- Now that I've gone through the effort of writing all that out - I think I need a vacation.
