8<--- { "title": "Miscellanea for 2025-05-29", "time": "23:59:00-07:00", "type": "miscellanea", "slug": "miscellanea", "tags": [ "miscellanea" ] }

- Hello world!
- Been doing a bunch of vibe coding lately in Windsurf, "pairing" with Claude. A thing I keep wondering is how to make this process more multiplayer.
	- Like, there's a conversation between Claude and I. But I can't easily share that transcript with another human teammate.
	- That conversation is about as important as the code for making sense of things. More so, if we start to consider the code as an increasingly derivative product of the conversation.
	- So, if my teammate is also working in Windsurf with Claude, they're missing all the context I built up that brought the project to its current state.
	- And this isn't even getting into the notion of "mob coding" where maybe there's 2-3 of us humans with an AI agent riding shotgun.
	- I'm thinking the conversation with the agent is a particular form of documentation that should be preserved - maybe as an artifact paired with each discrete git commit?
	- Of course, the conversation is messy, with lots of iteration. So maybe it would help if there's a summary or a tl;dr ginned up at commit time, too? (That could be the commit message, I guess?)
- I like the notion of [Architecture Decision Records](https://github.com/joelparkerhenderson/architecture-decision-record) (ADRs) - I wonder if something like that could work for iteration sessions with an AI agent? 
	- If we can scope a session to something discrete like a feature and capture the conversation from start to end in one of a rolling series of markdown files, that might be interesting context for both human and AI.
- I know all the above presupposes that coding with an AI agent is a real and valuable thing. But, after putting a bunch of hours into giving it a try, I've morphed from skeptical disbelief to cautious buy-in.

8<--- { "draft": false, "title": "Quoting Jon Udell on MCP and RSS", "slug": "mcp-jon-udell", "tags": [ "llm", "ai", "rss", "mcp" ], "time": "17:27:46-07:00" }

Jon Udell, [MCP Is RSS for AI](https://thenewstack.io/mcp-is-rss-for-ai-more-use-cases-for-model-context-protocol/):

> It may sound impressive to say “I built an MCP” server, but the mechanics are delightfully trivial — which is why I’m inclined to think of MCP as RSS for AI. The beauty of RSS as a protocol was its simplicity. You can write an RSS feed by hand, or write very simple code to generate one. Writing an RSS reader was the starter project for many a beginning coder. It’s not quite that easy to work with MCP’s protocol, JSON-RPC, but vastly easier than working with, say, the protocols spoken by Fediverse or Bluesky clients and servers.

I need to play with [MCP](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) more. I've gotten through the basic "hello world" tutorial and hacked together a server that emits random [cat facts](https://github.com/lmorchard/botpub/blob/master/bots/CatFacts/cat-facts.txt). That was pretty cool, asking Claude to do "research" on cats and vomit a little throwaway essay sourced from that.

But, yeah, it was very simple. In fact, I worried it's too simple. It's kind of a slapdash protocol. But, I think I worried that about RSS when I first saw it, way back in like 1999. I figured I'd have to learn SGML and XML and [NewsML](https://iptc.org/standards/newsml-g2/) (?!?) to do anything interesting with syndicating content on the web. I don't even remember where I dug up references to NewsML, back then. 

Like [Anil Dash notes](https://www.anildash.com/2025/05/20/mcp-web20-20/), "slightly under-specified protocols that quickly get adopted by all the players in a space are what wins". There do seem to be similar vibes coming from MCP as we got from things like RSS and XML-RPC back in the 2000s.