8<--- { "title": "Miscellanea for 2025-05-20", "time": "23:59:00-07:00", "type": "miscellanea", "slug": "miscellanea", "tags": [ "miscellanea" ] }

- Hello world!
- [Added support for a `draft: true` flag on entries here](https://github.com/lmorchard/blog.lmorchard.com/commit/954919050fca61d04d6e89beec96b0ea374ba74d), which should at least help me keep half-broken things from deploying mid-rant
- I should figure out a decent way for showing really long strings here, like the path names in that cloud saves post today 🤔

8<--- { "title": "Liberating save games from Xbox Cloud Gaming", "time": "11:40:54-07:00", "slug": "liberating-xbox-cloud-saves", "tags": [ "gaming", "xbox", "cloud", "msft" ] }

Ah, the problems of a masochistic nerd trying to game. For about a year now, my gaming PC has run [Bazzite Linux](https://bazzite.gg/) because I got tired of Windows. I've also got a Game Pass subscription, prepaid for a long while from before I switched to Linux. This was not a well thought out plan.

While other game stores work pretty great, the only way to use my Game Pass subscription on Linux is via [Xbox Cloud Gaming](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/play). The Xbox app doesn't on Linux and won't install Game Pass stuff locally on Linux. Still, streaming works pretty well for games I want to try and ditch when I get bored. But, it's so ephemeral that I wouldn't really want to commit to buying a game through that outright.

So, I started playing [Clair Obscur: Expedition 33](https://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/store/clair-obscur-expedition-33/9PPT8K6GQHRZ/0010) via Cloud Gaming. After about 13 hours in, I realized I wanted to buy the game. As it turns out, Steam likes Linux and [the game runs well there](https://www.protondb.com/app/1903340). It was on sale in a bundle, so I went ahead and bought it [from Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1903340/Clair_Obscur_Expedition_33/)  instead of from Xbox.

But, my 13-hour-old save game was trapped in the cloud. I guessed I'd just have to abandon it and start over. That is, until I pieced a few things together:

Thanks to [Xbox Play Anywhere](https://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/xbox-play-anywhere), the saves in Cloud Gaming sync down to PC game installations. I had one old Windows laptop left in the house that would install Game Pass games - it just played them horribly. Once I installed the game locally from Game Pass and booted it up once, my cloud save descended onto my laptop hard drive.

Then, I installed the game again from Steam - i.e. the copy I purchased. From there, I could follow [this guide to transplant my save file from Game Pass to Steam](https://steamcommunity.com/app/1903340/discussions/0/592895445665061488/). Once properly transplanted, the save game found its way onto Steam's cloud sync servers and then back onto my real gaming PC.

<!--
For posterity, in case that thread goes away, I copied from the newest modified directory here: ```C:\Users\me\AppData\Local\Packages\KeplerInteractive.Expedition33_ymj30pw7xe604\SystemAppData\wgs\00090000044E48CB_000000000000000000000000697F9EC3```

And I copied to here: ```C:\Users\me\AppData\Local\Sandfall\Saved\SaveGames\76561198015267336```

Oh, and it needed renaming to `EXPEDITION_0.sav` - easy peasy. 
-->

I realize this sounds like the plot to a dork heist. But, it worked!

8<--- { "draft": true, title": "Quoting Greg Storey on Minimum Viable Humans", "slug": "minimum-viable-human-career", "tags": [ "career", "ai", "llms" ], "time": "14:50:07-07:00" }

Greg Storey, "[Minimum Viable Humans.](https://brilliantcrank.com/minimum-viable-humans/)":

> Companies aren't just cutting costs—they're conducting a fundamental reset to find their Minimum Viable Humans model. They're stripping organizations down to the ground—the irreducible human functions that (currently) can't be replaced or augmented by AI.
> 
> This isn’t about cruelty—it’s about control. Executives aren’t twirling their mustaches dreaming up layoffs. They’re resetting to zero, trying to figure out what work truly requires a human being when the ground beneath us is shifting fast. It’s brutal, but not irrational. By stripping teams to the studs, companies are watching to see what actually breaks without us—and what doesn’t. That’s the part we need to pay attention to.

Again, [impersonal like a funnel cloud](https://blog.lmorchard.com/2025/05/15/quoting-will-larson-on-career-advice-in/index.html), but this rings true to what I've been seeing too. That it hits like cruelty is just incidental to the process—but also like I wrote a few days ago, indignation won't pay my mortgage. 


> When organizations begin selectively adding humans again, it won't recreate the structures we knew. The new addition of humans will focus on different capabilities than those being eliminated. They'll operate within flatter, algorithm-mediated structures. They'll be evaluated by different metrics. They'll collaborate with AI systems as a fundamental assumption.



> Trying to get your old job back is futile—that role, as you remember it, isn’t coming back. The opportunity now lies in positioning yourself for the roles and capabilities that will emerge as organizations rebuild from the bottom up—core human strengths like creativity and ethical judgment, the ability to collaborate with AI, your unique experience and expertise, and the kind of discernment that values judgment over process.

The brutal reality is that we're experiencing a fundamental reset in how organizations structure themselves around human capability. No amount of denial—or outrage aimed at global corporations—will reverse it. The question isn't whether you can hang on through temporary cuts until things "go back to normal." As I keep trying to shout, normal isn't coming back.

> The question is whether we can adapt to a new reality where the division of cognitive labor between humans and machines is being radically rewritten. Where the premium isn't on executing known processes but on navigating unmapped territory. Where spans of control, decision rights, and value creation are all being reorganized around a new human-machine partnership.



> The manager's role isn't just being eliminated—it's being fundamentally redefined from day-to-day oversight to exception handling, strategic communication, and resource allocation across much larger teams. It will keep going into augmenting the decision-making process for leaders and individual contributors alike. The boundaries of acceptable risk at all levels are now in a constant prototype state as AI becomes more powerful and faster, giving mere mortals more access to information and insight than ever before. The trick will be what training we need in order to make the pairing work.

