8<--- { "title": "Miscellanea for 2025-05-16", "time": "23:59:00-07:00", "type": "miscellanea", "slug": "miscellanea", "tags": [ "miscellanea" ] }

- Hello world!
- I listen to podcasts at between 1.8x - 2.5x, depending on the day's mental weather. That means, when I've met a podcaster I listen to, they sound drugged or drunk to me.
	- I’ve had folks tell me this sounds stressful. But, I get distracted in the gaps and my mind wanders. Easier for me to follow rapid word dumps. 
	- This is not a flex, this is a coping strategy. 
- The new Peter Murphy album, "[Silver Shade](https://petermurphy.bandcamp.com/album/silver-shade)", sure is Peter Murphy. 
	- I don't hate this at all.
	- I'm really digging the collabs he did here, teaming up with folks like Boy George, Trent Reznor, and Justin Chancellor.
- Hey, you, service provider on the web that I pay for: I am annoyed that I'm constantly signed out when I come to visit. You don't remember me, and you are constantly trying to call-to-action and dark-pattern me into your growth hacks when I already have an account.

8<--- { "title": "Burning out in a business mech suit", "time": "17:15:48-07:00", "slug": "solo-burnout", "tags": [ "work", "career", "future", "ai" ] }

Brilliantcrank, "[The coyote trap.](https://brilliantcrank.com/the-coyote-trap/?ref=brilliantcrank-newsletter)":

> What if survival looked like ownership instead? What if the best response to getting laid off isn’t to get in the line to nowhere for the next thing, but to build your own thing? Do your own thing? The tools are there. The access is there. The demand is there.
>
> We’ve got too many smart, experienced people standing at the edge of the workforce, assuming their only move is down or to keep trying what worked yesterday. From what I read many folks fear an AI fuled collapse, but I fear another powered by denial, retreat, and stubborn nostalgia. If enough of us take this route, we’re going to see a quiet, steady slide of educated, capable folks into poverty—and that’s not just a personal tragedy, it’s a societal one. And no amount of boycotting or avoiding AI is going to help.

I've been thinking a lot about this, lately. And I keep thinking about "my own thing" that I could build. I've had some ideas, but I'm not sure any of them are big enough to convince people to shovel enough money at me to pay my mortgage?

On top of that, I've never felt a particular urge to be an entrepreneur. That doesn't sound like my kind of fun, at all. Ownership, being my own boss, making all the decisions, taking all the risk. Not enticing to me.

For instance, not that I think this would be a great business, but: Since I got my 3D printer, I've seen lots of folks running little garage print farms. Looks like fun! I'd love to have a dozen or two machines whirring away. But then I realize, practically speaking, a print farm isn't about printing. It's about bookkeeping, inventory, visits to the UPS store, and self-marketing—and I don't like any of that.

Seems like every idea I've come up with boils down to that. Even if I'm just thinking about being a freelancer doing what I already do for work. The thing is not the thing. You have to build & maintain a business mech suit around the thing to make the money happen.

I don't think I would like it. I think it would burn me out after not very long. That's not denial or retreat or nostalgia—I think that's just self-honesty. I mean, if it's that or starving, I'll do the needful somehow. But, for as much as I'm a socially-anxious hermit, I think I like being on a team or in a crew. I want to do my part, play my role. I don't want to pull off the whole heist by myself.

So, I'm definitely not avoiding AI, and I'm working to stay current. But I'm not sure I'm hanging out my own shingle any time soon?

8<--- { "title": "Hey Ron, who's driving?", "time": "17:00:28-07:00", "slug": "review-ai-code", "tags": [ "ai", "llms", "codegen", "work", "dev" ] }

Chris Stokel-Walker, "[Why untested AI-generated code is a crisis waiting to happen](https://leaddev.com/software-quality/why-untested-ai-generated-code-is-a-crisis-waiting-to-happen)":

> The fear is of a slow-burn crisis where generative AI engines spew reams of code, stitched from web-scraped snippets with dubious provenance. 
> 
> When that code leaps from prompt to production without being vetted, the potential attack surface balloons in size. The bill for defective code is already sizable: 40% of firms say malfunctioning or miscoded software costs them at least $1 million a year, through staff churn, increased technical debt, and escalating maintenance costs, with losses above $5 million in almost half of large US firms.

So, don't let "code leap from prompt to production without being vetted" - it's not like it happens on its own. Steady hand on the tiller. Vibe coding is fine for screwing around and exploration, but assume you're going to be on pager duty for whatever hits production. And if someday you stick an LLM on pager duty, may Eris have mercy on your soul.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/IfY49zx7RU0?si=Gx2gyj-rqsBSHoL-&amp;start=46" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

8<--- { "title": "Ruining YouTube on purpose", "time": "16:52:08-07:00", "slug": "ads-ruining-youtube", "tags": [ "ads", "advertising", "youtube", "google" ] }

Android Authority, "[YouTube’s new ads will ruin the best part of a video on purpose](https://www.androidauthority.com/youtube-peak-points-ads-3557905/)":

> YouTube is always cooking up new ways to show you ads. Be it skippable ads, non-skippable ads, mid-rolls, or bumpers, the goal, as always, is to find more places to make more money. And now, thanks to AI, YouTube has found a brand-new spot to squeeze in ads — right when something exciting happens in a video.

I don't think I quite understand the point of ads on YouTube, these days. Are they there to get me to think favorably of an advertiser and buy something from them? Or are they there to annoy me into paying for YouTube Premium? Does this make anyone happy?

8<--- { "title": "A bad workman blames his tools", "slug": "dont-blame-the-tool-blame-the-hand", "tags": [ "ai", "llms", "ml" ], "time": "09:42-07:00" }

The Verge, "[Anthropic blames Claude AI for ‘embarrassing and unintentional mistake’ in legal filing](https://www.theverge.com/news/668315/anthropic-claude-legal-filing-citation-error)"

> Anthropic has responded to allegations that it used an AI-fabricated source in its legal battle against music publishers, saying its Claude chatbot made an “honest citation mistake.”

This is dumb. Don't do that. That's like blaming your cordless drill for hitting a pipe or wiring in the wall while working to mount a shelf. It's not the tool's fault. A bad workman blames his tools. It's your hand holding the tool—own the mistake.

8<--- { "title": "Message in a bottle", "time": "12:57:00-07:00", "slug": "message-in-a-bottle", "tags": [ "metablogging" ] }

Matt Webb, "[When was peak message in a bottle?](https://interconnected.org/home/2025/05/16/bottle)":

> I grew up with the idea that you could put a paper note in a bottle and throw it into the ocean, and somebody might find it a thousand miles away.
> ...
> So maybe this is my message in a bottle, right here? If it’s 2035 for you pls do drop me a note.

A little early, but answering with a bottled message of my own here.
