8<--- { "title": "Miscellanea for 2025-05-31", "time": "23:59:00-07:00", "type": "miscellanea", "slug": "miscellanea", "tags": [ "miscellanea" ] }

- Hello world!
- I need to come up with a process here that keeps these miscellanea posts marked as a draft, if I never get past "Hello world!"
	- I start a new file every morning from a template, with the intent that I'll drop by and jot some things here throughout the day. But, this week turned out to be particularly busy. So, I went a few days never getting past "Hello world!" and that's not super interesting to publish.
	- At some point, I want to hook this stuff up to Mastodon and Bluesky accounts. I don't want to just post templated nonsense. (Just intentional nonsense.)
- Maybe there's something in the air, because a week or two ago I got suddenly compelled to dive down a rabbit hole about [the transformer robot watch](https://tfwiki.net/wiki/Kronoform) I had when I was a kid in the 80s.
	- The one I had was confiscated by a teacher and never given back. I'm still salty about that.
	- But, just a couple days ago, I saw [this video from Secret Galaxy on the history of the Kronoform watch](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xe5umc6Jha4)
	- From there, I found [this giant-sized printable version of the Takara Kronoform in desktop clock form](https://www.printables.com/model/962592-takara-mc-06-kronoform-the-desktop-clock) - I'm going to have to give that a try.
	- I kind of want to try building some version of the robot watch with some smart guts. I probably won't get around to it, but why do smart watches have to be so boring?
	- Maybe I can split the difference by sticking a smart display in the desktop clock version? Hook it up to Home Assistant and make it do... I don't know what.

8<--- { "draft": false, "title": "No-build frontend web development", "slug": "no-build-webdev", "tags": [ "es6", "js", "javascript", "webdev" ], "time": "11:04:49-07:00" }

Simon Willison on [no-build wedev](https://simonwillison.net/2025/May/31/no-build/):

> If you've found web development frustrating over the past 5-10 years, here's something that has worked worked great for me: give yourself permission to avoid any form of frontend build system (so no npm / React / TypeScript / JSX / Babel / Vite / Tailwind etc) and code in HTML and JavaScript like it's 2009.

This blog has a ["backend" build process](https://github.com/lmorchard/blog.lmorchard.com/blob/main/index.js) to produce the static HTML. But, [the frontend](https://github.com/lmorchard/blog.lmorchard.com/blob/main/content/public/index.js) is pretty much build-free. 

Web development with "vanilla" JavaScript has gotten pretty good in the last decade, thanks to [Modules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules), [dynamic `import()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import), [Custom Elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_custom_elements), and a pile of other relatively recent APIs. 

The easy path at work these days tends to be Next.js, but I kind of hate it. All my side projects start with `touch index.{html,js,css}`.  I roll on from there with maybe a live-reload HTTP server pointed at the directory (e.g. `npx reload src`).

That said, I have started playing with carefully re-introducing *some* build tooling for [a few side projects](https://blog.lmorchard.com/2025/04/25/sketches-as-web-components/index.html) - but, only for external dependencies. I've tinkered a bit with [using esbuild to compose bundles as JS modules](https://github.com/lmorchard/sketches-v03/blob/main/build.js) importable by the rest of my unbundled modules. 

The nice thing about this is that I can treat those external dependencies as standalone utility modules without infecting the rest of my project with build machinery. I can even just check in a copy of the built asset to keep the project stable and usable, years later.

8<--- { "draft": true, "title": "My Obsidian Rube Goldberg Writing Machine", "slug": "obsidian-rube-goldberg", "tags": [ "obsidian", "writing", "metablogging" ], "time": "16:04:56-07:00" }

According to the count in my [archives](https://blog.lmorchard.com/archives.html), I've published over 50 blog posts in the past few weeks. That's about as many as I've managed to publish in the past 10 years!

Granted, they're small posts and none of them are masterworks. But, [like I wrote earlier](https://blog.lmorchard.com/2025/05/09/blogging-elsewhere-than-into-the-void/), I'm hoping to land a few moderately decent things instead of waiting until I come up with something great.

So, I figured I might write something about the assemblage of parts I've accumulated over time that added up to this low-friction writing system I have now.

## Obsidian

I use Obsidian as a daybook, for taking notes and writing in general. One Markdown file per day, created every morning from a template, named for the current date in a folder for the current year.

In that file, I accumulate notions and tasks over the course of a day. Occasionally, something buds off into a linked page devoted to the topic - a project, a person, a train of thought. Sometimes I use tags to index bullet points on themes I might want to collect & review later.

Beyond all of that, I don't use many of the fancier features of Obsidian. There are a few things I do by hand for which I keep meaning to write a plugin or some scripts - but it's been about six years of never quite getting around to it.

## Syncthing

I don't use Obsidian Sync, though it would probably make my life easier if I did. Instead, I use Syncthing - that works well enough since my Obsidian notes are really just a pile of files.

Like Obsidian, there are builds of Syncthing for every desktop & laptop OS. It also works on my Synology NAS for backups. When I had an Android phone, I used a version of Syncthing that ran great. Now that I have an iPhone, I use a version of Syncthing that works as well as it can within the limitations of iOS.

This means that I can edit notes on one of about 7 redundant copies across devices - the changes land everywhere eventually. There are conflicts sometimes, but they're manageable. Periodically, the Synology NAS commits changes to a remote git repository, and the files get included in a big offsite cloud backup.

For what it's worth, at one point I tried using iCloud Drive to sync notes between my iPhone and a MacBook Pro. That worked so horribly that I wouldn't recommend it to anyone.

## Easy-Blog Oven

Like I wrote earlier, my notes in Obsidian are just Markdown files, named for the current date in a folder for the current year.

Well, it turns out that [my blog posts](https://github.com/lmorchard/blog.lmorchard.com/tree/main/content/posts/archives) look a lot like that too! The main difference was that I created one file per post, mostly following [the convention I picked up from Jekyll ](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/posts/) years ago. 

But, one thing I've learned is that friction adds up in user interfaces. It can be a squelch threshold that filters out noise what might be worth considering signal. Creating new files worked well enough when I was trying to hold back until I had Big Things to write. But, that seemed to be enough of a drag to keep me from doing it for anything smaller. And that, in turn, kept me from posting much at all.

