8<--- { "slug": "miscellanea", "time": "17:46:00-07:00" }

<div class="miscellanea">

- If I keep this weeknotes thing up, maybe I could find a way to make it a daynotes thing? I like how [Simon Willison](https://simonwillison.net/) and [Dave Winer](http://scripting.com/) just kind of riff throughout the day with notions of various length and format - sometimes as short as a toot and sometimes expanding out into full essays.
- I think I'd need to restructure my layout here a bit, pull way back from the assumption that I'll often be posting Big Serious Things like magazine articles. Also make it way easier to just have a page-a-day open to catch things that tumble out of my brain.
- This is not terribly new - Dave's been doing it for decades. And, I did it his way for awhile using his OPML Editor. What's new is I'm sort of ruminating over reinventing all the wheels in ways particular to my current habits and energies.
- I like being a tinkerer and I like building stuff useful to myself. I wouldn't say I'm an inventor, as such, but I do have a lot of things in my personal environment that are peculiar and just-so to me that other folks might not find handy.
- I groused last week about how Apple prevents me from buying a book for my Kindle from my iPhone. It's been that way for a long while. Looks like maybe since they got smacked in court last week, [that maybe I'll be able to buy a book for my Kindle soon](https://mjtsai.com/blog/2025/05/06/external-purchasing-from-the-kindle-app/) (sorta)?

</div>

8<---

Wendell Berry, "[Why I Am not Going To Buy A Computer](https://classes.matthewjbrown.net/teaching-files/philtech/berry-computer.pdf)":

> To make myself as plain as I can, I should give my standards for technological innovation in my own work. They are as follows:
>
> 1. The new tool should be cheaper than the one it replaces.
> 2. It should be at least as small in scale as the one it replaces.
> 3. It should do work that is clearly and demonstrably better than the one it replaces.
> 4. It should use less energy than the one it replaces.
> 5. If possible, it should use some form of solar energy, such as that of the body.
> 6. It should be repairable by a person of ordinary intelligence, provided that he or she has the necessary tools.
> 7. It should be purchasable and repairable as near to home as possible.
> 8. It should come from a small, privately owned shop or store that will take it back for maintenance and repair.
> 9. It should not replace or disrupt anything good that already exists, and this includes family and community relationships.

There's background for this essay with which I'm not at all up to speed or well versed. But, taken in isolation, I have to say that this is a pretty solid set of standards for technological innovation.

8<---

I just found this [permacomputing wiki](https://permacomputing.net/) via [tante](https://masto.hackers.town/@tante@tldr.nettime.org/114459769793690044), where there's [a statement of principles](https://permacomputing.net/Principles/) that I think jibe well with what Wendell Berry wrote:

> - Care for life
> - Care for the chips
> - Keep it small
> - Hope for the best, prepare for the worst
> - Keep it flexible
> - Build on a solid ground
> - Amplify awareness
> - Expose everything
> - Respond to changes
> - Everything has a place

8<--- { "slug": "cheating-with-ai" }

Flipped through Tiktok this morning and saw a girl complaining about how AI gave her all the wrong answers for cheating on her business final exam. Like this would be a relatable thing.

She's kind of fighting for her life in the comments with folks dragging her. She seems not quite to believe that cheating on a final exam in business with AI is an abnormal thing.

Like, it sounds worse than denial, like she's baffled that it's even questionable and she thinks everyone's lying to her to be mean.

8<---

