8<--- { "draft": false, "title": "Miscellanea for 2025-09-17", "time": "23:59:00-07:00", "type": "miscellanea", "slug": "miscellanea", "tags": [ "miscellanea" ] }

- Hello world!
- I set up this lovely rapid-fire blogging machine, then I got really busy and stopped rapid-fire blogging (ugh!)
	- Maybe I should take another swing at weeknotes? If every day is a loosey-goosey opportunity to blog, then no day is a particular day to blog.
- I've done a few interesting things lately:
	- Mostly shelved my work on [Pebbling Club](https://github.com/lmorchard/pebbling-club), since I realized I'm kind of reinventing a lot of wheels better made by others.
	- I switched over to using [Linkding](https://linkding.link/) as a bookmark bucket—this is one of those aforementioned pre-invented wheels.
	- Built & released [feedspool-go](https://github.com/lmorchard/feedspool-go), which takes OPML lists and produces a static site of RSS items. This has become my new feed reader.
	- Built & released [linkding-to-opml](https://github.com/lmorchard/linkding-to-opml), which now allows me to use Linkding bookmarks as my OPML list of feed subscriptions for feedspool.
- Next, I'm thinking about what further small composable glue tools I can gin up to essentially build what I wanted with Pebbling Club.
	- Maybe something to turn a day or week of Linkding bookmarks into markdown as the starting point for a blog post?
	- Maybe something to turn a day or week of Mastodon toots into markdown, also as the starting point for a blog post?
	- Also eyeing up all the notes and highlights I accumulate from my Kindle - those could make a good blog post too, since I've been ripping through books as I pedal away on the exercise bike every morning.
- Way in the back of my mind, I still have a vague impulse to see if I can stitch all the above together into some kind of "pebbling" (i.e. sharing)


