8<--- { "draft": false, "title": "Miscellanea for 2025-06-11", "time": "23:59:00-07:00", "type": "miscellanea", "slug": "miscellanea", "tags": [ "miscellanea" ] }

- Hello world!
- Blogging has slowed here, but I'm hoping to pick it back up.
	- It was probably a shiny-new-toy phase for the first few weeks.
	- But also, I just changed projects at work and got suddenly a lot busier. So, my time for idle rumination has vanished for now.
	- I did post [a relatively big thing on AI coding](https://blog.lmorchard.com/2025/06/07/semi-automatic-coding/) last weekend, so that's pretty good though?
- A lot of what I'm doing at work right now is living in Windsurf and Claude Code. 
	- I've read folks saying they're playing games while the LLM codes, but I'm actively reviewing as it writes. Surprisingly a lot of mental effort, watching a bot write code for me. 😅
	- I can imagine a future where I'm an LLM manager, endlessly keeping a fleet of code-generation plates spinning and nudging toddling bots away from falling into ditches.
- My brain suddenly demands I play [Terraria](https://www.terraria.org/).
	- This happens every few years. And when it does, I get a sudden hyperfocus rabbit hole thing that lasts a week or so and evaporates abruptly.
	- I've only ever made it past the first few bosses in the game despite playing it since release back in 2011. 💀
	- I think that's my general M.O. with games: I get to a point where I'm like "ooh novelty" and then "ah, okay, I get how it goes from here" and wander off.
	- I very rarely want grinding or more of the same thing, once I see the pattern. Until, I guess, the anti-novelty wears off and it feels novel again? (Thus the repeat visits to Terraria)
	- Sometimes I'm really jealous of folks who can just lock into a Special Interest like Terraria and just milk endless reliable dopamine from the thing.
	- Meanwhile I'm like BORED NOW and have to go hunting again.
