8<--- { "draft": false, "title": "Miscellanea for 2025-10-09", "time": "23:59:00-07:00", "type": "miscellanea", "slug": "miscellanea", "tags": [ "miscellanea" ] }

- Hello world!
- I almost hate to talk about it for fear of jinxing myself, but: 
	- I tend to write 3 journal pages every week day. Takes me about an hour. I've managed to reliably do it for almost 10 years now. 
	- I've accumulated a lot of pages intended mostly for no one to read.
	- A month ago, I decided to trade that hour on Tuesday and Thursday for creative writing. 
	- I've never before found a consistent slot in my day for it. But, for some reason, easing up on journal writing never occurred until now.
	- It's ended up being a pretty ideal time: an hour in the day where my brain's not yet mush and I've usually been able to carve it away from everything else.
	- Since I started doing that, I managed to finish 3 half-abandoned short stories and then get 2000 words into a new one.
	- Crossing fingers I can keep this up, because it's something I've wanted to make this work for a stupid long time. 
	- I have been able to write in bursts of hyperfocus spaced over the course of a year—thus the half-abandoned stories—but I need a more reliable drumbeat between those sessions.
	- I've avoided looking for writing groups, because social pressure and accountability doesn't seem to motivate me like it does other folks. So, I have to already be getting the thing done to feel like it's worth the social outing.
	- That said, I'm thinking about getting more folks to read my stuff. Of course, I know what I'm doing right now is going to be terrible until I've managed to do it for awhile.
	- Apropos of that, I posted [Behemoth](https://blog.lmorchard.com/2025/10/07/behemoth/) yesterday just to get it away from me. Maybe I'll do more of that as I finish things and while I look for a community?
