---
comments_archived: true
date: '2003-10-01T16:21:23-04:00'
layout: post
title: 'RSS-Data: XML-RPC encoding in RSS 2.0'
wordpress_id: 487
wordpress_slug: rss-data
wordpress_url: http://www.decafbad.com/blog/?p=487
---
<blockquote cite="http://radio.weblogs.com/0113297/2003/10/01.html#a236"><i><p>
A few months ago I approached Dave Winer and a few other people with a very simple idea.? Why not use XML-RPC's data serialization format to create a simple data language for object meta-data in RSS (and other!) applications.? Interestingly, if you subtract the message envelop from XML-RPC, add Unicode and time-zone support to the standard, you've actually got WDDX, quite literally.? Dave really liked the idea, and we came up with the idea of RSS-Data.
</p>
<p>
Why use RSS-Data?? Pragmatism.? Because of the rapid growth of blogging software, XML-RPC parsers are already implemented in dozens of languages and platforms.? As a result, a simple data language based on XML-RPC's data model could emerge in a matter of days or weeks, as developers quickly refactor their parsers to simply provide data serialization/deserialization components.
</p></i></blockquote><div class="credit" align="right"><small>Source: <cite><a href="http://radio.weblogs.com/0113297/2003/10/01.html#a236">Jeremy Allaire's Radio </a></cite> (via <a href="http://weblog.siliconvalley.com/column/dangillmor/archives/001383.shtml">Silicon Valley - Dan Gillmor's eJournal - Expanding the Scope of RSS</a>)</small></div>	<p>Grr. I can&#8217;t decide whether I hate this idea or can live with it.  On the one hand, I have benefitted from <span class="caps">XML</span>-RPC and it&#8217;s quick integration between disparate scripting environments.  But on the other hand, the tendency to use adhoc data structures in scripting has given me numerous headaches and plenty of inexplicable bugs.</p><p>The further I get, the less I want quick and dirty, and the more I want thoughtful chaos and at least some documentation.  I&#8217;d like some schemas, rather than reverse engineering from example.  But sometimes it&#8217;s nice to short circuit over-designed processes and take expedient shortcuts, even if there lies the road to madness.  Sleep is good sometimes.</p>
<!--more-->
shortname=rss_data
